# Aave 3.2

Aave 3.2 focuses on two main areas of the aave protocol:

- the final deprecation of stable borrowing
- improvements on the eModes

## Stable Rate offboarding

While previous upgrades allowed graceful offboarding of stable borrowing, now with no stable borrow positions being left the protcol can remove all the now obsolete stable rate related logic.

### Migration guide

The upgrade is 100% backwards compatible.
There are no changes to any methods, nor are there changes to emitted events.
Parameters emitted in events that relate to stable rate are nulled.

## Emodes: Removal of the eMode oracle

The eMode oracle has never been used and it's usefulnes is debatable.
Therefore to allow for storage optimization within the eMode configuration and reduce unnecessary code paths - the eMode oracle was removed.

#### Indexers

For backwards compatibility the existing `EModeCategoryAdded` will be emitted, but with `oracle` being nullified.

## Emodes: Liquid eModes

The new Liquid eMode feature of Aave v3.2 removes the previous constraint: **an asset listed on Aave can be eligible for different eModes, and then it only depends on the user to choose which eMode he wants to enter to.**

For example, with liquid eModes, a possible configuration not doable before would be:

- eMode 1, with wstETH, weETH and WETH.
- eMode 2, with wstETH and WETH.
- eMode 3, with weETH and WETH.
- eMode 4, with WETH and GHO.

So then, user A holding the wstETH and weETH collaterals, could borrow WETH at high LTV.
User B holding only wstETH could borrow WETH at high (but different) LTV.
User C holding only weETH could similarly borrow WETH at a different LTV than the previous two eModes.
User D could have a position with WETH collateral and GHO borrowings.

This doesn’t stop there, as more sophisticated configuration strategies could be adopted, like:

- eMode for only WETH and stablecoins.
- eMode for onboarding less mature LSTs, without requiring them being together with all major LSTs.

**For extra configuration flexibility, liquid eModes also allow now to flag an asset as only borrowable, only collateral, or both, in the context of an eMode.**
For example, in a hypothetic eMode with only wstETH and WETH, the normal configuration would be wstETH as only collateral and WETH as only borrowable, fully focusing on the wstETH leverage use-case.

### BREAKING CHANGES

- DataTypes.EModeCategory will return the same data as now, but is flagged deprecated and will be removed at a later point.

- the new version of `PoolDataProvider` no longer exposes `PoolDataProvider.getReserveEModeCategory(address asset)` as there no longer is a `1:1` relation between assets and eModes.
- `reserveConfig.getEModeCategory()` will return the current eMode, but will no longer be updated and is flagged deprecated.

### Migration guide

For existing users, the upgrade is 100% backwards compatible and no migration or similar is required.
Entering and leaving an eMode still works via `setUserEMode(categoryId)` and `getUserEMode(address user)` like in previous versions of the protocol.

#### Indexers

As collateral/borrowable flags are newly introduced, two new events are being emitted:

- `event AssetCollateralInEModeChanged(address indexed asset, uint8 categoryId, bool collateral);`
- `event AssetBorrowableInEModeChanged(address indexed asset, uint8 categoryId, bool borrowable);`

#### Getters

In aave 3.1 all eMode parameters were exposed via a single `getEModeCategoryData` getter.
When checking existing integrations, we noticed that in most cases this approach is suboptimal, given that users only rely on a subset of the data.
Therefore in addition to the **deprecated** `getEModeCategoryData` getter there are now independent getters for the respective values:

- `getEModeCategoryCollateralConfig(categoryId)`, returning the eMode ltv,lt,lb
- `getEModeCategoryLabel(categoryId)`, returning the eMode label
- `getEModeCategoryCollateralBitmap(categoryId)`, returning the collateral bitmap
- `getEModeCategoryBorrowableBitmap(categoryId)`, returning the borrowable bitmap

#### Identifying eModes for an asset

In the previous version of the eModes feature it was possible to query a reserve configration to receive it's unique eMode.
The relevant bits on the reseve configuration have been nullified.

To identify eModes of a selected asset, there is currently multiple options:

- onchain one can iterate trough eModes and select the "correct one" based on your application specific needs.

```sol
for (uint8 i = 1; i < 256; i++) {
    DataTypes.CollateralConfig memory cfg = pool.getEModeCategoryCollateralConfig(i);
    // check if it is an active eMode
    if (cfg.liquidationThreshold != 0) {
        // check if it's an eMode you are interested in
        EModeConfiguration.isCollateralAsset(pool.getEModeCategoryCollateralBitmap(i), someReserveIndex);
        EModeConfiguration.isBorrowableAsset(pool.getEModeCategoryBorrowableBitmap(i), someReserveIndex);
    }
}
```

- an offchain system could listen to `AssetCollateralInEModeChanged` & `AssetBorrowableInEModeChanged` events and feed the onchain contract with an appropriate categoryId
