## Aave v3.3 features properties

Formal properties in natural language of the 3.2 features.

<br>
<br>

## Properties

<br>

### 1. Bad Debt Management

- A bad debt liquidation event should only occur when the liquidation results in the user's total collateral across all reserves being zero in the base currency, while the total debt across all reserves remains non-zero in the base currency.
- A user should only be considered in bad debt if their total collateral across all reserves is zero in the base currency while their total debt across all reserves remains non-zero in the base currency or if they have active borrowing.
- After a bad debt liquidation, the user's borrows should be zero.
- For accounts already in bad debt that are cleaned via the burnBadDebt function, the borrow balance should be zero after cleaning.
- The deficit of all reserves should initially be zero.
- The deficit of reserves that cannot be borrowed or have no borrows must be zero.
- In the event of a bad debt liquidation, the reserve deficit incremented should be the difference between the user's total debt and the user's actual debt to liquidate for the equivalent reserve.
- For accounts already in bad debt and that are cleaned via the `burnBadDebt` function, the increase in the reserve deficit should be equal to the user's debt balance for the equivalent reserve.
- The deficit of all reserves should only be reduced by an authorized entity called the coverage admin.
- The deficit of a reserve should only be reduced if reserve deficit is not zero.
- The deficit of a reserve should only be reduced if the coverage admin has the equivalent aToken in their balance.
- The deficit of a reserve should only be reduced after validating the health factor and the ltv of the coverage admin.
- The maximum amount by which the deficit of a reserve can be reduced should not exceed the current reserve deficit.
